I would put motivation of why you'd drop data (missing not at random, esp in economics) before the example. Like hey you might care about this.. but does it matter?
Wow it matters a lot.

\phi should be called out as a scalar on "what estimators do we study?" slide.

Add slide numbers

Seems like \Delta is in "units" of \phi. But then the example with the colored arrows, the arrows are in "units" of \theta_p.

Maybe make \phi_lin = \phi(\hat\theta) + linear term?

During setup, might want to give explicit examples of G's ("one really common place this shows up is maximum likelihood estimation where the G's are going to be derivaitves
w.r.t. \theta of the log likelihoods)

"What makes an estimator non-robust" how did you pick \theta_0 ? Is the color of the plot always the same if the ratio sigma_x / sigma_eps is the same?
I.e. does the robustness just depend on SNR (it kind of looks like this is the case, figured someone might ask)

I got slightly lost on the transition to the "Three steps" slide. I mean that I kind of lost track of why we were proving those 3 things.
Like why does it matter that the shape parameter is bounded?

Was \theta_\infty defined?

Are there different benefits to the 3 arguments for the "second step"? E.g. holds under different conditions. (I guess you kind of say this by saying the 1st one is heuristic).
Might want to clarify this up front).

"Insignificance is always non robust" This seems like a really counterintuitive thing... I would spend significantly more time on this. Intuitively why is it true, and what are the consequences? I think this is going to surprise and amaze a lot of people. Sort of like "ok our tool is cool, and you might think that our theory is just theory, but wow does it have some surprising consequences"

Examples of the conditions of Thm 1 being standard? Maybe say "like linear and logistic regression all satisfy these conditions under reasonable data generating processes"
(reasonable like the covariates having full-rank covariate mtx)

On results slide "the bolded entries show the ones where we actually achieved the change" then say "note that *all* entries are bolded, so our approximation is doing
exactly what it's supposed to across the board" (OK you said this later, but I'd say it immediately after)

Question that I'd ask: do you have an idea of how economists might produce experiment designs that would robustify against data dropout? (either using the work you've done
here or not)?
